source: S-f2vfcma6
url: https://www.mintlify.com/docs/guides/configure-automerge
title: Configure auto-merge (Mintlify)
publisher: Mintlify (mintlify/docs)
licence: MIT (mintlify/docs LICENSE)
retrieved: 2026-09-28
changes: normalized to text by _tools/provider.py (raw form; front matter, link targets, images and page chrome removed); not the publisher's formatting
---
AI
# Configure automerge for GitHub Apps
Set up GitHub workflows to automatically merge Mintlify pull requests by adding the Mintlify bot to your repository’s ruleset bypass list.
Listen to this pageabout 2 min
Add the Mintlify GitHub App to a ruleset’s bypass list so that the app can create and merge pull requests without review and status check requirements blocking it. This lets you configure automations to automatically merge changes to main.
The Mintlify GitHub App must have bypass permissions on every ruleset that targets your deploy branch, including rulesets defined at the organization level and the repository level. If any ruleset is missing the bypass entry, the automation creates a PR, but does not merge it.
##
​
Prerequisites
Repository admin access (and organization admin access if there are org-level rulesets)
Mintlify GitHub App installed on the repository
One or more rulesets targeting the main branch (at the org or repo level)
##
​
Steps
Repeat these steps for every ruleset that applies to your deploy branch. Both organization-level and repository-level rulesets.
1
Navigate to rulesets
Repository rulesets: On GitHub, go to your repository’s Settings -> Rules -> Rulesets.
Organization rulesets: Go to your organization’s Settings -> Rules -> Rulesets.
2
Select the ruleset
Click a ruleset that targets your deploy branch, which is usually main.
3
Add the Mintlify GitHub App to the bypass list
Under Bypass list, click Add bypass.
Search for and select the Mintlify GitHub App.
Set the bypass mode to Always.
4
Save
Click Save changes.
5
Repeat for remaining rulesets
If you have additional rulesets at the org or repo level that target your deploy branch, repeat steps 2–4 for each one.
##
​
Verify the setup
For contributors: Open a PR targeting main. Confirm that it still requires approval and passing status checks before you can merge.
For automations: Trigger an automation with automerge enabled. Confirm that the automation runs and successfully merges a PR.
⌘I
