source: S1597
url: https://docs.pypi.org/trusted-publishers/adding-a-publisher/
title: Adding a Trusted Publisher to a new PyPI project
publisher: Python Software Foundation (PyPI docs)
licence: Apache-2.0 (docs in pypi/warehouse)
retrieved: 2026-09-28
changes: normalized to text by _tools/provider.py (raw form; front matter, link targets, images and page chrome removed); not the publisher's formatting
---
# Adding a Trusted Publisher to an existing PyPI project
Adding a Trusted Publisher to a PyPI project only requires a single setup step.
On the "Your projects" page, click "Manage" on any project you'd like to
configure:
Then, click on "Publishing" in the project's sidebar:
That link will take you to the publisher configuration page for the project,
which will allow you to configure Trusted Publishers for the different
platforms supported by PyPI (such as GitHub Actions).
To enable a publisher, you need to tell PyPI how to trust it. Each trusted
publisher has its own configuration requirements; click the tabs below to see
each.
GitHub ActionsGoogle CloudActiveStateGitLab CI/CD
For GitHub Actions, you must provide the repository owner's name, the
repository's name, and the filename of the GitHub Actions workflow that's
authorized to upload to PyPI. In addition, you may optionally
provide the name of a GitHub Actions environment.
For example, if you have a project at https://github.com/octo-org/sampleproject
that uses a publishing workflow defined in .github/workflows/release.yml
and a custom environment named pypi, then you'd do the following:
Note
Configuring an environment is optional, but strongly recommended:
with a GitHub environment, you can apply additional restrictions to
your trusted workflow, such as requiring manual approval on each run
by a trusted subset of repository maintainers.
Once you click "Add", your publisher will be registered and will appear
at the top of the page:
From this point onwards, the release.yml workflow on octo-org/sampleproject will
be able to generate short-lived API tokens from PyPI for the project you've registered
it against.
For Google Cloud, you must provide the email address of the account or
service account used to publish. You can learn more about Google Cloud
service accounts
here.
For example, if you have created a service account named
"SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAME" in the project "PROJECT_NAME" which is in use by
the environment where you would like to publish to PyPI from, your service
account email would take the form
SERVICE_ACCOUNT_NAME@PROJECT_NAME.iam.gserviceaccount.com, and you would do
the following:
Warning
Google Cloud also provides default service
accounts
for various products:
Compute Engine: PROJECT_ID-compute@developer.gserviceaccount.com
App Engine: PROJECT_NAME@appspot.gserviceaccount.com
However it is not recommended that these be used for publishing, as
they are provided by default to every service when they are created.
Note
Configuring the subject is optional. The subject is the numeric ID that
represents the principal making the request. While not required, providing the
subject further restricts the identity which is used for publishing, ensuring
that only a specific instance of a service account can publish, not any service
account with the configured email. See
https://cloud.google.com/docs/authentication/token-types#id-contents
for more details
Once you click "Add", your publisher will be registered and will appear
at the top of the page:
For ActiveState, you must provide the name of the ActiveState project,
the ActiveState organization that project belongs to, and the ActiveState user performing
the publish action. Learn more about getting set up on the ActiveState Platform here.
Once you click "Add", your publisher will be registered and will appear at the top of the page:
Note
Currently, only projects hosted on https://gitlab.com are supported. Self-managed
instances are not supported.
For GitLab CI/CD, you must provide the repository's namespace, the
repository's name, and the filepath of the top-level GitLab CI/CD pipeline
definition that's authorized to upload to PyPI. In addition, you may
optionally provide the name of a
GitLab CI/CD environment.
For example, if you have a project at https://gitlab.com/namespace/sampleproject
with a top-level pipeline defined in .gitlab-ci.yml and a custom environment
named release, then you'd do the following:
Note
Configuring an environment is optional, but strongly recommended:
with a GitLab environment, you can apply additional restrictions to
your trusted workflow, such as requiring manual approval on each run
by a trusted subset of repository maintainers.
Once you click "Add", your publisher will be registered and will appear
at the top of the page:
From this point onwards, the .gilab-ci.yml pipeline on namespace/sampleproject
will be able to generate short-lived API tokens from PyPI for the project you've
registered it against.
A publisher can be registered against multiple PyPI projects (e.g. for a
multi-project repository), and a single PyPI project can have multiple
publishers (e.g. for multiple workflows on different architectures, operating
systems).
